# Guidelines for contributors

Thank you for your interest in contributing to the CBRAIN project.

We ask you to respect the following basic rules:

## All your contributions must be written by a human.

We do *NOT* accept any code or comments generated by *AI* (Artificial Intelligence) systems.

That means you must be able to vouch for the meaning of every letter, digit and special character in your Ruby, Javascript or HTML code, and in their associated comment blocks.

This rule is true even if you feel you have poor skills in English or French; we will be very forgiving, and even welcoming, because we like to talk to humans a lot more than to talk to machines.

## Keep your communications to simple sentences.

When communicating with us via the discussion panels of [Pull Requests](https://github.com/aces/cbrain/pulls) and [Issues](https://github.com/aces/cbrain/issues), avoid long bullet point lists, sections with long paragraphs, and overly general justifications. We only want the core information that will help us evaluate your contribution, as written by you, the author of the changes.

When providing a *Pull Request*, do not repeat the description of a problem if it's already described in an associated *Issue*.

Here is an example of a good pull request with a sraightforward, practical description: [Pull Request 1581](https://github.com/aces/cbrain/pull/1581). Write something like that yourself.

## Add comments that explain the flow of the logic of your code.

Explain WHAT your code is doing, and not HOW it's doing it.

Do not write comments that repeat the code.

An example of such comments can be see in for the method `retry_setup!` here: [CBRAIN file background_activity.rb line 668](https://github.com/aces/cbrain/blob/f14340b6327b933d610ad0e3011f8353efb8866d/BrainPortal/app/models/background_activity.rb#L668)

## Follow the general style of CBRAIN

The codebase is not all that consistent, but look around.

We also have a (Programming-Style guide)[https://github.com/aces/cbrain/wiki/Programming-Style]

One thing is for sure: your code *MUST* be written in plain UTF-8 text with only the _linefeed_ character (ASCII 10, as in `\n`) as your line terminator. We do no accept Windows-style line terminators (carriage-return+linefeed, `\r\n`), because we're UNIX developers.

## Be nice

Consider reading our [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) for further information.

